DigiPen Against Humanity
========================

*DigiPen Against Humanity* is a stand-alone card game for three or more players
based on *Cards Against Humanity*. I wrote about a third of it while pretty
drunk. It is neither created by nor affiliated with DigiPen Institute of
Technology in any way. See "Legal disclaimers" at the end of these rules for
more details. 



Overview
--------

The original intent of the game was to make a *CAH* clone that would appeal to
all DigiPen Institute of Technology students, but it quickly became apparent
that while there certainly is common ground to be found, many of the things that
make DigiPen students the most resentful live in each respective degree program.

This brings us to the biggest difference between *DigiPen Against Humanity* and
*Cards Against Humanity* (other than how the playful nihilism and occasional
biting social commentary have been replaced with an overall feeling of bitter
defeat): the cards have logos in the lower left-hand corner that allow you to
customize how the game plays depending on who is participating. Cards marked
"CS" will likely only be meaningful to RTIS and BSGD students. Cards marked
"GD" will technically apply to BSGD and BAGD students, but really more the
former than the latter. Cards marked "BFA" aren't funny to anyone.



Components
----------

 * a bunch of Black Cards
 * a shit-ton of White Cards
 * this document
 * alcohol (optional) (not provided)



Objective
---------

Laugh and cry and try to regain enough resolve to return to DigiPen for another
semester. Or, if you dropped out, feel even better about your decision to do so.



Setup
-----

Look through all of the cards and remove any that aren't appropriate for your
group by looking at the icons in the lower left-hand corner of the front of each
card. For example, if playing with an all RTIS crowd, it would probably be best
to remove all the GD and BFA cards.

Separate the cards because they probably got mixed together from the last time
this Godforsaken game was played. Shuffle the Black Cards into a face-down deck,
and do the same for the Whie Cards. There's probably too many White Cards to put
in a single stack; that's OK.

Have each player draw seven White Cards. If someone asks if they can look at the
cards, politely ask them if they're a game design student. If they are, they
immediately lose the game and can't play for the rest of the night. Otherwise,
tell them "yes."

The player who pooped most recently is the first Card Czar.



How to play
-----------

Each round begins with The Card Czar drawing a single Black Card from the deck,
reading it out loud, and placing it in the center of the table for all to see.

Each non-Card Czar player then looks through their hand and chooses a single
White Card that answers the question or fills in the blank on the Black Card,
and places this card face-down in the center of the table, next to the Black
Card.

Once everyone's in, the Card Czar shuffles the White Cards and then reads each
one aloud in turn. For maximum effect, the Card Czar also re-reads the Black
Card along with each White Card. White Cards are laid face-up on the table after
being read.

After the Card Czar has read all of the White Cards, they choose the one that
*they* think is the funniest. Whoever played that card wins the round, and is
awarded the Black Card as proof of their victory. This is placed face-down on
the table in front of them. All of the played White Cards, including the winning
one, are discarded.

Everyone draws enough White Cards such that they have seven White Cards in their
hand. A new Card Czar is then chosen, typically by going clockwise around the
table, and the new round begins.



### Special cards ###

Some Black Cards say **PICK 2** on the bottom. These cards require players to
play two White Cards, instead of just one. Instead of putting all players' White
Cards in a single pile and shuffling them, have each player place their White
Cards in their own two-card-high stack, placing the card that they wish to be
read first on *top* of the card that they wish to be read second. Get that? It's
super important. Here, I'll put it in bold so you can find this sentence when
somebody invariably asks you to repeat the specifics of the rules: **When
playing multiple White Cards, place the cards face-down on the table, one pile
per player, with the cards ordered such that the *top card* shall be read
*first.*** Have the Card Czar look away for a second, and then either move the
piles around so the Card Czar doesn't remember whose was where, or just leave
them be, as they probably don't remember and it really doesn't matter much
anyways. When the Card Czar reads the White Cards out loud, they *must* read the
cards in the order they were intended to be read (top card first, bottom card
last).

Some Black Cards say **DRAW 2, PICK 3** on the bottom. These cards are crazy.
When one of these cards is drawn, all non-Card Czar players immediately draw two
extra White Cards, and must play *three* White Cards.



### Other rules ###

 * If a player doesn't know what a given White Card means, they are allowed to,
   at any time, read the card aloud to the table and explain that they don't
   know what it means, discard the card, and draw a new one. Everyone else at
   the table may make fun of them as a free action.
 * Frequently, the White Card you draw immediately after a round will be the
   *perfect card* for that previous Black Card. When this happens, it sucks,
   but you can't do anything about it other than feel bummed out.
 * **Humor is subjective**; the Card Czar has the final say in who wins the
   Black Card each round.
 * If you have too few players (two or maybe three), or otherwise just want to
   add some non-sequitur RNG to the game, feel free to play with **Rando
   Cardrissian**.
    * Every round, have the Card Czar pick the correct number of White Cards
      required by the current Black Card from the deck, without looking, before
      the White Cards are shuffled together.
    * If the Card Czar declares the White Card or Cards that are the funniest,
      and none of the players remember playing it or them, then there's
      something of a chance that everyone's just too intoxicated to continue
      playing further, but either way, Rando just scored that Black Card,
      beating out all the actual human players. Way to go, Rando!
    * Rando Cardrissian holds the current world record for being the best
      *DigiPen Against Humanity* player.



Ending the game
---------------

Usually these sorts of games tend to just go on until somebody has to go home
and everyone gets up and starts moving about, or something like that. Otherwise,
the game ends either when one player gets seven Black Cards or there are no more
Black Cards left to draw.

When the game ends, evaluate how everyone's doing. If they feel better about
attending another semester at DigiPen compared to how they did before the game
started, they win. If they already dropped out, they also win. If they had a
good time at all, really, this also counts as winning.

If someone doesn't win, they lose, and that sucks.



Future versions
---------------

This game was created by a BSGD student after having survived the first year
at DigiPen without failing anything, but only just barely. This is the
perspective that most of the game comes from, but additional RTIS- or
BFA-themed cards, as well as cards that focus on other degree programs would be
welcome additions to future versions as well.

*DigiPen Against Humanity* will never contain cards that make personal attacks
on individuals. Any cards that name specific individuals will only do so
because they have my utmost respect.



Legal disclaimers
-----------------

*DigiPen Against Humanity* is distributed under a
[Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 2.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/)
license. This means that you're free to use and remix the game, but you can't
sell it without my permission, but more importantly, the permission of the
rights holders to [*Cards Against Humanity*](http://cardsagainsthumanity.com/).



### FAIR USE NOTICE ###

This game may make use of copyrighted material the use of which has not always
been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. This constitutes a 'fair
use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US
Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the material in
this game is offered publicly and without profit, to the public users of the
Internet for comment and nonprofit educational and informational purposes.
Copyright Disclaimer Under Section 107 of the Copyright Act 1976, allowance is
made for "fair use" for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting,
teaching, scholarship, and research. Fair use is a use permitted. No
copyright(s) is/are claimed. This content is made available for Study, Research,
and Educational purposes. The creator gains no profit from created content, so
it falls under "Fair Use" guidelines:
[http://www.copyright.gov/fls/fl102.html](http://www.copyright.gov/fls/fl102.html)

This game is in no way affiliated with or created by DigiPen Institute of
Technology.
